>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
FEBRUARY 16th, SECRETARY O
STATE JOHN KERRY SAYS CLIMAT
CHANGE MAY BE THE WORLD'S MOST
FEARSOME WEAPON OF MAS
DESTRUCTION.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, HO
MEXICO IS BATTLING OBESITY B
RAISING TAXES ON FOODS LOADE
WITH SATURATED FATS AND ON
SUGARY DRINKS.
>> EDUCATION PROGRAMS TO CHANG
THE HABITS OF PEOPLE BUT WE AR
ALSO USING INCENTIVES AND TAXE
CAN BE POWERFUL INCENTIVES
>> AND WHAT'S BEHIND GROWING
DRUG SHORTAGES IN AMERICA NEXT
ON PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND
FROM THE TISCH STUDIOS FROM NE
YORK, HARI SREENIVASAN
>> THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
SKT JOHN KERRY WARNED TODAY THAT
THE WORLD IS RUNNING OUT OF TIME
TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE.
HE ADDRESSED PEOPLE HE CALLE
SHODDY SCIENTISTS AND IDEOLOGS
THAT ARE TRYING TO HIJACK TH
CONVERSATION
>> TERRORISM, EPIDEMICS,
POVERTY, WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION ALL CHALLENGES THA
KNOW NO BORDERS.
THE REALITY IT RANKS RIGHT U
THERE WITH EVERY SINGLE ITEM
>> UNITED STATES AND CHINA
AGREED TO COOPERATE MORE CLOSELY
TO FIGHT CLIMATE CHANGE.
THE TWO COUNTRIES ARE TH
LARGEST EMITERES OF GREENHOUSE
GASES.
WHILE IN INDONESIA, KERRY ALSO
VISITED THE LARGEST MOSQUE I
SOUTHEAST ASIA WITH THE CAPACITY
OF 130,000
INDONESIA IS THE WORLD'S MOS
POPULOUS COUNTRY
>>> ACCUSING NORTH KOREA O
CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY AN
RECOMMEND THAT THE CASE BE
TURNED OVER TO THE INTERNATIONAL
CRIMINAL COURT IN THE HAGUE,
EXECUTIONS, RAPES AND FORCED
ABORTIONS.
EXPERTS BELIEVE NORTH KOREAN
PRISON CAMPS IN ISOLATED PARTS
OF THAT COUNTRY HOLD AS MANY A
120,000 PRISONERS, MANY OF THE
POLITICAL PRISONERS.
CHINA IS LIKELY TO BLOCK ANY
MOVE TO BRING THE CASE TO TH
INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT
IN EGYPT TODAY, A FATAL ATTACK
ON A BUS CARRYING SOUTH KOREAN
TOURISTS
AT LEAST THREE PEOPLE WERE
KILLED AND 20 INJURED SHORTL
BEFORE THE BUS WAS TO HAVE
CROSSED INTO ISRAEL FROM THE
PENINSULA.
THIS FOOTAGE CAPTURES THE MOMENT
THE BLAST OCCURRED
THERE HAVE BEEN INCREASING
VIOLENCE SINCE THE OUSTER OF
MOHAMED MORSI.
TODAY'S ATTACK WAS THE FIRST
AGAINST.
>>> HAMAS SAID IT WOULD NO
ACCEPT THE PRESENCE OF
INTERNATIONAL PEACEKEEPERS
THERE.
PALESTINIAN PRESIDENT MAHMOU
ABBAS SAID HE WOULD ACCEPT THE
DEPLOYMENT OF INTERNATIONA
TROOPS
SPOKESMAN FOR HAMAS SAID IN TH
SAME MANNER IT USES AGAINST WHAT
HE CALLED ISRAELI OCCUPATION
FORCES, AN APPARENT REFERENCE TO
SUICIDE BOMBINGS AND OTHER
ATTACKS.
>>> BACK IN THIS COUNTRY
PROSECUTORS IN FLORIDA WIL
RETRY A 47-YEAR-OLD SOFTWARE
ENGINEER ON MURDER CHANG
CHARGES.
THE JURY CONVICTED MICHAEL DUN
ON THREE COUNTS OF ATTEMPTED
MURDER BUT DEADLOCKED ON THE
MURDER CHARGE.
HE SHOT AND KILLED AN UNARME
BLACK TEENAGER AFTER AN ARGUMENT
AT A JACKSONVILLE GAS STATIO
ABOUT THE TEEN AND HIS FRIENDS
PLAYING LOUD RAP MUSIC
DUNN TESTIFIED THAT HE THOUGHT
HE SAW THE BARREL OF A GUN I
THE TEENS' CAR, BUT PROSECUTOR
SAY DUNN FACED NO PHYSICAL
DANGER AND KEPT FIRING EVE
AFTER THE TEENS DROVE OFF.
>>> THERE'S BEEN A MAJOR FOO
RECALL
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT FOO
SAFETY INSPECTION SERVICE SAYS
DRIED EGG PRODUCTS MAY B
CONTAMINATED WITH SALMONELLA
SHIPPED TO U.S. MILITARY BASES
AROUND THE NATION AND ABROAD
NO ILLNESSES HAVE BEEN REPORTE
SO FAR
NEW INFORMATION ABOU
APPROXIMATE THAT MAJOR SECURIT
BREACH AT TARGET
WALL STREET JOURNAL SAYS
COMPUTER SECURITY EXPERTS WARN
THE COMPANY THAT ITS PAYMENT
SYSTEM WAS VULNERABLE AND NEED
TO BE REVIEWED
THIS, AT LEAST TWO MONTHS BEFORE
HACKERS STOLE 40 MILLION CREDI
AND DEBT CARD NUMBERS FROM THE
COMPANY'S SERVERS.
THE REQUEST WAS INITIALL
BRUSHED OFF.
IT IS UNCLEAR IF A REVIEW WA
EVER CARRIED OUT
TARGET HAS NOT COMMENTED ON TH
REPORT
>>> THERE'S BEEN A HACKING
INCIDENT AT KICK STARTER A
WELL
THE COMPANY, WHICH PROVIDES AN
ONLINE PLATFORM SAID THI
WEEKEND THAT HACKERS HAD GAINE
ACCESS TO USERS NAMES, ENCRYPTED
PASSWORDS, E-MAIL, MAILING
ADDRESSES AND PHONE NUMBERS.
THE COMPANY SAYS THE PROBLEM HAS
BEEN FIXED AND NO CREDIT CAR
INFORMATION WAS STOLEN
>>> DISCOURAGING NEWS ABOUT WHAT
PEOPLE DO AND DON'T KNOW ABOUT
THE SOLAR SYSTEM
LIKE, FOR INSTANCE, THAT THE
EARTH IS ACTUALLY PART OF IT
THAT'S ANOTHER WAY OF SAYING
THAT 26% OF AMERICANS POLLED B
THE NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATIO
DID NOT KNOW THAT THE EART
REVOLVES AROUND THE SUN.
IN CASE YOU'RE WONDERING
AMERICANS ACTUALLY FARED BETTE
ON THE QUESTION THAN THOSE
POLLED IN THE EUROPEAN UNION O
PREVIOUS SURVEYS
>>> AS WE REPORTED EARLIER, SK
JOHN KERRY WAS IN INDONESI
TODAY, AFTER CONCLUDING
TWO-DAY VISIT TO CHINA
FOR MORE ABOUT HIS LATES
DIPLOMATIC MISSION WE'RE JOINE
NOW FROM WASHINGTON BY JEFF DYER
AND REPORTED FROM CHINA FOR SI
YEARS.
JEFF, YESTERDAY JOHN KERRY WAS
MAKING NEWS ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE
IN CHINA
TODAY IN INDONESIA
WHY IS CLIMATE SO HIGH ON TH
STATE DEPARTMENT'S AGENDA RIGH
NOW?
>> I THINK THERE ARE REALLY TW
REASONS FOR THAT
ONE IS THAT SECRETARY OF STATE
IS TRYING TO BUILD MOMENTU
TOWARD THE CONFERENCE NEXT YEAR,
BIG PERSONAL PRIORITY OF HIS A
WELL
AND THEN THE OTHER REASON, I
THINK, IS THAT THE U.S
GOVERNMENT SEES CLIMATE CHANGE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AS ON
OF THE AREAS IN WHICH YOU CA
POTENTIALLY COOPERATE WITH
CHINA, HAVE A RELATIONSHIP WIT
CHINA AND COMPETITIVE ASPECT
WHICH ARE GATHERING STEAM.
CLIMATE CHANGE IS ONE OF THE
AREAS WHERE THEY MAY BE ABLE T
WORK TOGETHER IN A MUCH MORE
COHERENT AREA.
>> AND ONE OF THE AREAS THE U.S.
WANTS TO WORK WITH CHINA I
NORTH KOREA.
IS NORTH KOREA'S -- I SHOULD SAY
IS CHINA'S INFLUENCE ON NORT
KOREA DIMINISHING WITH THE
TUMULT THAT'S HAPPENING THERE?
>> CHINA IS STILL VERY MUCH TH
GUARANTOR, WHICH THE REGIM
RELIES ON.
WHEN KIM JONG-UN HAD HIS UNCLE
EXECUTED ESSENTIALLY, HE WAS A
VERY CLOSE -- THE PERSON IN TH
REGIME THAT THE CHINESE HAD TH
CLOSEST TIES TO.
THEY SAW HIM AS SOMEONE THEY
COULD DEAL WITH MORE
EFFECTIVELY.
THEY'RE HOPING THAT HE WOULD
ENCOURAGE MORE CHINESE ECONOMI
REFORMS IN NORTH KOREA AND S
NOW THAT HE'S OUT OF THE
PICTURE, THEY FEEL POTENTIALLY
MUCH LESS INFLUENCE OVER THE
REGIME
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT A COUPLE O
MONTHS AGO WE HEARD THE SABE
RATTLING FROM CHINA AND JAPA
ABOUT THESE DISPUTED ISLANDS
IS THAT GETTING ANY BETTER
>> STILL VERY MUCH A HOT ISSUE
THERE ARE ENGAGEMENTS ALMOST O
A DAILY BASIS BETWEEN JAPANESE
SHIPS, CHINESE AIRCRAFT AND TH
RISK IS NOT THAT THE CHINESE ARE
GOING TO INVADE THE ISLANDS OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT, BUT THE RISK
IS SOME SORT OF ACCIDENT
MISCALCULATION, ONE OF THESE
PILOTS GOES A LITTLE TOO FAR
AND YOU CAN GET SORT OF TH
INCIDENT THAT QUICKLY SPINS OU
OF CONTROL
>> ALL RIGHT
AND FINALLY, IT LOOKS LIKE A BIG
PICTURE.
WHERE IS THE U.S. STATUS I
ASIA
THE PRESIDENT, PRESIDENT OBAMA
IS SCHEDULED TO GO VISIT A FEW
ASIAN COUNTRIES IN APRIL
>> ABSOLUTELY.
IN A VERY STRONG POSITION IN
ASIA
ONE OF THE REASONS FOR THAT IS
THAT MOST OF THE COUNTRIES I
THE REGION, APART FROM CHINA
WANT TO SEE A SIMILAR START OF
STATUS CALL, SIMILAR SORT OF
STRUCTURE IN ASIAN POLITICS.
BUT THE REGIME HAS -- TH
ADMINISTRATION HAS LOST A BIT IN
THE LAST FEW MONTHS.
SENSE THAT IT'S DISTRACTED
SECRETARY KERRY IS FOCUSED O
THE MIDEAST.
SO THERE'S A SENSE IN ASIA THA
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
REALLY SLIGHTLY LOST ITS
MOMENTUM, HAS GOTTEN A BIT
DISTRACTED
THAT'S WHY SECRETARY KERRY I
THERE THIS WEEK.
THAT'S WHY HE'S TRYING TO SHOW
THAT HE'S STILL VERY MUC
FOCUSED ON ASIA.
>> HOW MUCH OF THE PRESIDENT'S
VISIT WILL BE TO TRY TO OFFER
COUNTER BALANCE OR BE
COUNTERWEIGHT TO CHINA'S GROWING
INFLUENCE IN THE REGION?
>> WELL, THE BROADER THRUST OF
THE POLICY IN THE REGION AT TH
MOMENT, IS TO TRY TO SHOW THAT
IT'S NOT GOING TO DISAPPEAR,
THAT CHINA WON'T TAKE OVER AND
BECOME THE DOMINANT POWER.
BUT IT'S A VERY SUBTLE POLICY,
PARTICULARLY ENVIRONMENT, TRYING
TO WORK WITH CHINA AND NORTH
KOREA ON IRAN.
THERE'S NOT A CASE OF ALL-OU
COMPETITION AND COOPERATION.
>> WHAT ABOUT THIS LARGE
CONTEXT CONVERSATIONS ABOU
CHINA AND THE U.N. SECURIT
COUNCIL?
THE U.S. KEEPS BUTTING HEADS
WHEN IT COMES TO ISSUES LIKE
SYRIA.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ALTHOUGH I THINK ON THE SYRI
ISSUE, PROBABLY WITH RUSSIA.
CHINA TENDS TO SUPPORT RUSSI
BUT HASN'T STOOD OUT IN ANY WA
WITH SYRIA
RUSSIA IS WHERE THE HARD WOR
WILL BE DONE OUGHT SYRIAN ISSUE.
>> JEFF, THANK YOU VERY MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATUR
SEGMENT, OUR ORIGINAL IN-DEPTH
REPORTS FROM AROUND THE NATION
AND AROUND THE WORLD
TONIGHT WE TAKE YOU TO MEXICO, A
COUNTRY LIKE THE UNITED STATES
TRYING TO COPE WITH HIGH LEVEL
OF OBESITY
UNLIKE THE UNITED STATES, MEXICO
HAS RECENTLY ADOPTED A NATIONA
POLICY TO TRY TO OVERCOME TH
PROBLEM.
ITS BIGGEST COMPONENT,
INCREASING TAXES ON FOODS WITH
SATURATED FAT AND SUGARY DRINKS,
ALL WITH ASSISTANCE OF NEW YOR
CITY MAYOR MICHAEL BLOOMBERG
MARTIN FLETCHER REPORTS.
>> Reporter: EVERY SUNDAY MEXICO
CITY, TENS OF THOUSANDS ANSWER
THE PRESIDENT'S CHALLENGE TO
EXERCISE ONE HOUR A DAY.
MEXICO'S HEALTH MINISTRY SAY
ITS CITIZENS ARE TOO FAT
YOGA CLASS ALONG THE CITY'S MAIN
REFORMER AVENUE.
NEARBY, ZUMBA.
FIVE STRAIGHT HOURS OF LATIN
AMERICAN DANCE AND AEROBICS,
OVERSEEN BY A MEXICA
PENTATHLETE.
>> 70% ARE OVERWEIGHT AND YOU'RE
AN OLYMPIC ATHLETE
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT IT
>> IT'S A VERY IMPORTANT
PROBLEM.
IT'S SAD WE CAME TO THIS PART.
IT HAS A LOT TO DO WITH TH
EDUCATION, CULTURE
WE ARE TRYING TO MAKE THIS -
>> Reporter: ZUMBA DANCE, BARELY
FIVE FEET, THIS 30-YEAR-OL
MOTHER HAS STRUGGLED WITH HE
WEIGHT HER WHOLE LIFE.
ZUMBA HAS HELPED HER LOSE 20
POUNDS
SHE'S HOPING TO LOSE 20 MORE
IT'S CERTAINLY HARD TO RESIST.
CATCHY PART OF WHAT MEXICO CALLS
ITS THREE PILLARS TO FIGHT
OBESITY.
SO THIS IS PILLAR NUMBER ONE
MORE EXERCISE FOR THE PEOPLE
I THINK I'VE LOST A LITTLE BIT
OF WEIGHT.
MAYBE.
AFTER MORE SPORT COMES NUMBE
TWO, HEALTHIER DIET.
IT'S PECULIAR NUMBER THREE THA
HAS THE WHOLE WORLD WATCHING
TAXATION OF JUNK FOOD.
WITH 1.5 MILLION PEOPL
OVERWEIGHT AROUND THE WORLD,
MEXICO'S BATTLE OF THE BULGE HAS
BECOME A TEST CASE IN THE FIGH
AGAINST OBESITY.
NEW TAXES ARE 8% ON FOOD HIGH IN
SATURATED FAT, SUGAR AND SAL
LIKE SWEET BREADS AND CAKES AN
ABOUT 9% ON SUGARY DRINKS LIKE
COLA
>> WE HAVE A LOT OF EDUCATIO
PROBLEMS
TO CHANGE THE HABITS OF PEOPLE
BUT WE ARE ALSO USIN
INCENTIVES
TAXES CAN BE POWERFU
I BELIEVE IN INCENTIVES AND
THINK THEY SHOULD HAVE AN AFFECT
ON HOW PEOPLE ACCEPT WHAT TO
DRINK AND WHAT TO EAT.
>> Reporter: COMMERCIALS POUND
THE MESSAGE, EXERCISE AND EA
HEALTHY, EVERY DAY
SIMILARLY TO THE NEW YOR
MESSAGE OF FORMER MAYOR MICHAE
BLOOMBERG.
AND THAT'S NO COINCIDENCE.
BLOOMBERG'S PHILANTHROPI
ORGANIZATION HAS PLEDGED $10
MILLION TO HELP FINANCE MEXICO'S
ANTI-OBESITY CAMPAIGN.
JORGE RAMOS, CHIEF LAWYER FO
MEXICO'S BEVERAGE INDUSTRY
ASSOCIATION SAYS SINCE TAXES
WERE INTRODUCED JANUARY 1st THIS
YEAR, CONSUMPTION IS ALREADY
DOWN 5%, BUT HE BELIEVES IT WILL
GO UP AGAIN.
>> WE ARE NOT CONVINCED THAT B
PUTTING A NEW TAX FOR SOFT
DRINKS IN ADDITION TO OTHE
TAXES THAT THEY ALREADY PAY IS
GOING TO BE A SOLUTION
THE REASON IS THAT IT'S AN OLDER
CUSTOM IN MEXICO TO DRINK SOFT
DRINKS
>> Reporter: THAT'S EXACTLY TH
POINT, ISN'T IT, TO REDUCE THE
CONSUMPTION OF SUGAR, BECAUSE IT
LEADS TO OBESITY
>> YES
BUT IF TAX ONLY THE DRINKS WHICH
ARE BOTTLED, THEN WHY NOT TH
OTHER ONES
THERE IS AN INEQUITIABLE
SITUATION AND THE TAX MIGHT BE
UNCONSTITUTIONAL
YOU CANNOT TAX SOME PRODUCTS AND
THE OTHER ONES NOT
>> Reporter: WHAT RAMOS IS
GETTING AT, ONLY BOTTLED O
CANNED SOFT DRINKS OR PACKAG
SNACKS NOT THE FATTY FOODS AND
DRINKS SOLD ON THE STREET.
STILL MEXICANS DRINK MORE COCA
COLA DRINKS PER CAPITA THA
ANYONE ELSE IN THE WORLD
CASTILLO HAS HAD HYPERTENSIO
FOR TEN YEARS AND DIABETES FOR
FIVE
HOW MUCH COCA COLA DO YOU DRIN
A DAY?
FOR THE FAMILY THREE LITERS SH
SAYS
>> THREE LITERS A DAY?
ONE LITER A DAY EACH PERSON,
MORE OR LESS
SHE SAYS YES, IT'S BAD, AN
TORTILLA AND BREAD
MEXICO'S COCA COLA FRANCHISE
DECLINED OUR REQUEST
RAMOS, WHO REPRESENTS COKE
AMONG OTHER BRANDS, SAYS THE
SOFT DRINK COMPANIES ARE NOT THE
ONLY CULPRITS IN THE OBESITY
CRISIS
>> IT'S THE AMOUNT OF SUGAR.
DRINKS
>> MAYBE IT'S THE AMOUNT O
SUGAR.
IF IT'S THE ONLY ENERGY THAT
THEY CONSUME, THEY EAT OR THEY
DRINK.
SO, NO PROBLEM
THEY EXERCISE, NO PROBLEM AT
ALL.
IT'S VERY EXPENSIVE TO BUY
FRUITS, TO BUY VEGETABLES.
SO THEY ARE ONLY EATING FRIE
FOOD
>> Reporter: WITH 50% OF
MEXICANS LIVING BELOW TH
POVERTY LINE, CROFT IS CRITICAL.
>> DOESN'T IT JUST MAKE IT MOR
EXPENSIVE FOR THE PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T AFFORD TO BUY ANYTHING
ELSE
>> TAXES ARE ONLY TAXING
HIGH-CALORIE FOODS AND SUGAR
DRINKS
THERE ARE OTHER FOODS AND OTHE
DRINKS AVAILABLE THAT AR
ALREADY TAXED AND WE WANT THAT
SHIFT.
>> Reporter: LOCALS SHY AWAY
FROM TAP WATER OFTEN LEAVING
BOTTLED DRINKS AS THE ONLY
OPTION
BACK AT HOME, DIANA FROM ZUMBA
CLASS HAS HEARD THE GOVERNMENT'S
MESSAGE LOUD AND CLEAR AND HAS
CHANGED HER EATING HABITS OVER
THE PAST YEAR.
THE CHILDREN EAT RICE, PEAS,
TORTILLA AND GUACAMOLE
A YEAR AGO IT WAS FRIES,
HAMBURGERS, CANS OF COALA.
IF SHE HADN'T GONE ON THE DIET
SHE SAYS, I WOULD BE THIS BI
SBCHLT SHE FEELS BETTER.
LOOK AT THE BADGE BEHIND HER
THAT'S SPANISH FOR I FEE
MAGNIFICENT.
IT'S TOO EARLY TO SAY WHAT THE
EFFECT OF TAXATION WILL BE AS
TOOL AGAINST OBESITY EVEN AS
SUPPORTERS SAY AN INCREASE OF
TO 10% IS NOT ENOUGH
THE GOVERNMENT ARGUES IT'S THE
MESSAGE THAT COUNTS.
HEALTHY EATING SAVES LIVES
IN A LOCAL INITIATIVE BY MEXIC
CITY, FOR THOSE WHO DON'T GO T
THE GYM, THE GYM COMES TO THEM
300 SO-CALLED URBAN GYMS WER
SET UP LAST YEAR
300 MORE WILL BE OPENED THIS
YEAR AND THE SAME AGAIN NEXT
YEAR
WITH MEDICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL
ADVICE AND CHECKUPS ALL PROVIDED
FREEBIE THE CITY
PREVENTION, THE MAYOR SAYS, IS
CHEAPER THAN TREATMENT
MARIA GONZALEZ IS THE CITY'S
PSYCHOLOGIST IN CHARGE OF THES
URBAN GYMS
>> WE WANT THE PEOPLE TO HAVE --
TO EAT HEALTHY
>> Reporter: WHEN YOU SEE TH
PEOPLE WHO COME TO YOU, ARE THEY
HEALTHY?
>> MOST OF THEM, NO.
BUT THEY COME HERE AND THE
ARE -- THEY START WANTING TO
HAVE A BETTER WAY OF LIVING, A
HEALTHY LIFE
A HEALTHY STYLE OF LIVING.
>> Reporter: THE BIGGEST
CHALLENGE IS TO START THEM
YOUNG.
ALL RESEARCH SHOWS THAT IF A
CHILD IS OVERWEIGHT AT AGE 5
MOST ALWAYS WILL BE.
THEY DON'T KNOW MUCH ABOUT NEW
TAXES, BUT THE GOVERNMENT SAYS
HIGHER TAXES ON JUNK FOOD WILL
MAKE FAMILIES BUY LESS AND THE
CHILDREN WILL BE HEALTHIER AND
LIVE LONGER.
>>> THE WHOLE WORLD IS GAINING
WEIGHT
FIND OUT WHERE THE U.S. FITS I
AND SEE WHAT OTHER COUNTRIES ARE
DOING TO BATTLE THE BULGE.
VISIT NEWS HOUR ON PBS.ORG
>>> GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILIT
OFFICE ISSUED A REPORT SERIOUS
AND GROWING DRUG SHORTAGES I
THE UNITED STATES.
JOINING US NOW FROM WASHINGTON
FROM "THE NEW YORK TIMES."
FIRST OF ALL, HOW BIGATIVE
PROBLEM IS IT?
HOW WIDESPREAD ARE THESE
SHORTAGES?
>> IT'S ACTUALLY A FAIRL
SERIOUS PROBLEM.
THE NUMBER OF SHORTAGES SINC
2010 -- RATHER 2007, THE NUMBE
OF SHORTAGES SINCE 2007 HAVE
TRIPLED.
SO, YOU KNOW, THIS IS ANYTHING
FROM INJECTABLE CANCER DRUGS T
DRUGS LIKE NITROGLYCERIN USED IN
HEART SURGERIES.
PRESENTING A PROBLEM FOR
HOSPITALS AROUND THE COUNTRY
>> HOW DID WE GET HERE
ANY PARTICULAR CAUSE FOR THE
SHORTAGES?
>> IT MIGHT BE STRANGE BUT IT'
OFTEN A MYSTERY WHEN A DRUG GOES
INTO SHORTAGE AS TO WHY.
YOU WOULD THINK THERE WOULD BE A
STRAIGHT, SIMPLE, PLAIN ANSWER
BUT IN MANY CASES THERE'S NOT.
THE PRODUCERS THEMSELVES ARE A
LITTLE SECRETIVE
THEY SAY IT'S A TRADE SECRET T
TELL THE WORLD EXACTLY WHAT IS
HAPPENING THAT'S CAUSING THE
SHORTAGE, SO THEY DON'T NEED T
DETAIL THE REASON.
OFTEN TIMES, HOWEVER, IT'S THA
MANY -- THERE ARE VERY FEW
PRODUCERS OF STEROL INJECTABLE
DRUGS, THE DRUGS THAT ARE MOST
OFTEN IN SHORTAGE IN THE UNITE
STATES
TWO, THREE, FOUR PRODUCERS ONLY.
MANY OF THE PRODUCTION LINES
THAT THEY HAVE ARE QUITE OLD
SO, KIND OF LIKE AN OLD CA
NEEDS A LOT OF REPAIRS, MORE
KIND OF FOCUS IN ATTENTION
SAME THING WITH THESE PLANTS
WHEN SOMETHING GOES WRONG, THE
FDA STEPS IN AND SAYS, WELL, W
CAN'T PRODUCE THIS LINE IF
THERE'S SOMETHING -- THERE'S
CONTAMINATION IN THE DRUG.
INSTEAD WHAT HAPPENS IS THE LINE
IS SHUT DOWN, SOMETIMES AN
ENTIRE FACTORY AND A DRUG GOES
INTO SHORTAGE BECAUSE THE FE
NUMBER OF OTHER PRODUCERS SIMPLY
AREN'T IN A POSITION TO RAMP U
PRODUCTION QUICKLY ENOUGH TO
KEEP UP.
>> SO, ARE THERE ECONOMI
FACTORS THAT CONTRIBUTE TO THIS?
>> YES
VERY INTERESTINGLY, THERE WERE
ECONOMIC FACTORS
STEROL INJECTABLE DRUGS ARE VERY
SMALL PROFIT MARGIN.
SOMETIMES WHAT HAPPENS IS, YOU
KNOW, A LINE GOES DOWN
SOMETHING BREAKS
SOMETHING BREAKS DOWN.
AND A COMPANY, A PRODUCER LOOK
AT THE MARGINS AND LOOKS AT TH
ECONOMICS AND SAYS, WELL, YO
KNOW, IT'S NOT REALLY WORTH WITH
THE MARGINS WE'RE GETTING ON
THIS DRUG CONTINUING THE LINE,
PUTTING THE MONEY IN TO FIX IT
SO, IN FACT, THEY LET IT GO INTO
SHORTAGE AND EVEN IF PEOPLE NEED
IT, EVEN IF IT'S A CRITICA
DRUG -- SAY, FOR EXAMPLE, TH
NITROGLYCERIN IN HEART
SURGERIES, THEY DON'T PRODUCE
AT THE END OF THE DAY, THE FDA
CAN ENCOURAGE, YOU KNOW,
PRODUCERS TO DO -- TO KEEP
GOING, BUT DOESN'T REALLY HAVE
THE POWER TO FORCE THEM TO D
THAT
>> SO, WHAT ARE TH
RECOMMENDATIONS BY THE GAO O
WHAT THE FDA SHOULD BE DOING
>> SO WHAT THE GAO SAI
ESSENTIALLY IS THAT THE FD
NEEDED TO BE ESSENTIALLY MOR
NIMBLE IN HOW IT WAS PREDICTIN
THESE SHORTAGES.
IT HAS NOW TREMENDOUS DATABASE
OF NUMBERS THAT TELL IT WHAT I
IN SHORTAGE AND HOW LONG IT'
BEEN IN SHORTAGE
A FAIR AMOUNT OF DATA, BUT
BASICALLY THE GAO SAID THE FDA
WASN'T USING THAT DATA TO KIND
OF LOOK AT OVERALL PATTERNS IN
THE COUNTRY, LOOK AT KIND OF HOW
THESE THINGS TENDED TO SHAKE OUT
AND THEN TRY TO PREDICT WHEN THE
SHORTAGES WOULD OCCUR.
THAT'S WHAT THE GAO TOLD THE FDA
THEY NEEDED TO GET BETTER AT
>> SABRINA TAVERNISI FROM "THE
NEW YORK TIMES," THANK YOU S
MUCH
>> THANKS A LOT.
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
CONNECTION
AS FAR AS EVERYONE IS CONCERNED,
TOMORROW IS PRESIDENT'S DAY.
AND MANY OF THE ADVERTISEMENTS
WOULD LEAD YOU TO BELIEVE THAT
IT'S A CELEBRATION OF TWO OF
AMERICA'S GREATEST PRESIDENTS,
GEORGE WASHINGTON AND ABRAHA
LINCOLN.
>> MASSIVE DEAL.
♪ WHO'S YOUR FOUNDING FATHER ♪
>> IN THE REAR VIEW CAMERA
>> DESPITE OF WHAT ALMOS
EVERYONE BELIEVES TOMORROW I
NOT A NATIONAL HOLIDAY KNOWN A
PRESIDENT'S DAY.
EVEN THE DEPARTMENT OF INTERIO
APPARENTLY ISN'T IN ON THE
SECRET
UNDER A FEDERAL LAW PASSED I
1968, THE THIRD MONDAY O
FEBRUARY WAS OFFICIALL
DESIGNATED AS WASHINGTON'S
BIRTHDAY
NO MENTION AT ALL OF HONEST ABE.
>> LINCOLN HAS NEVER HAD A
NATIONAL HOLIDAY DEVOTED TO HIM.
>> HAROLD HOLZER IS A LINCOL
SCHOLAR AND AUTHOR OR EDITOR O
35 BOOKS AND A CONSULTANT ON
"LINCOLN," THE ACADEMY AWARD
WINNING FILM OF 2012
>> SAME DISCORD THAT GREETED
MUCH OF RECONSTRUCTION
EVEN THOUGH DEAD AT THE TIME H
WAS CONSIDERED THE NORTHER
INTERLOPER WHO WOULD IMPOS
FEDERAL CONTROL ON THE SUNNY
SOUTH.
WHILE THERE WAS A WASHINGTON'S
BIRTHDAY THAT WAS A FEDERA
HOLIDAY, LINCOLN NEVER MADE IT
HE WAS ONLY A STATE BY STATE
HOLIDAY.
>> AND TODAY ONLY FOUR STATE
DESIGNATE LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY
FEBRUARY 12th, AS AN OFFICIA
HOLIDAY.
ALTHOUGH PRESIDENT LINCOLN HAS
BEEN PASSED OVER FOR A FEDERAL
DAY OFF HE IS ON MT. RUSHMORE,
THE $5 BILLION AND THE PENNY
BUT THERE IS TALK OF DITCHIN
THE PENNY, BECAUSE OF THE COST
TO PRODUCE
>> DR. KING AND OTHERS HAVE,
IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A NATIONA
EMBARRASSMENT.
>> WE CAN ALL ENJOY THE DAY OFF,
SAVE SOME PENNIES ON THOSE SALES
BUT CALL IT WHAT IT IS
WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY.
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW ON "THE NEWS HOUR."
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
"PBS NEWS HOUR THIS WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.